cars is a Disney Pixar animated film
released in 2006 and was the seventh
film released by Pixar Animation Studios
this film followed a string of
emotionally evocative and intellectually
stimulating films just two movies after
the industry changing Finding Nemo the
success of the studio was predicated on
taking the typical gimmicks of Hollywood
animated movies and subverting their
juvenility with examinations of
emotional depth creative visual
Direction and Stellar voice acting Pixar
defied all expectations that each
subsequent film would fall short of its
predecessor even a sequel to their debut
movie Toy Story 2 was Far More Than Just
a shallow reprisal of all the same
themes of the first in a period of
Hollywood history when sequels were
Hollow Recreations of their prior
installments for the Studio's early
history it seemed that they were the
real deal that even if they were
directing their films primarily to be
accessible to all ages they would treat
animation with dignity and integrity in
spite of being a subsidiary of Disney
Disney after all at the time was looking
for ways to collect Prestige without
diluting the Disney brand as per their
offshoots of Touchstone pictures and
Miramax Pixar was granting them Prestige
and animation that typical cartoons
could not however as Disney's in-house
animation projects began to flounder
does anyone remember Home on the Range
they needed to perpetuate that good old
dizziness somehow lucky for Disney Pixar
was about to allow the mouse's brand
into their studio with cars which from
the initial ads audiences pegged as it
being a little more corporate when it
was released it was decried as soulless
and not really having any other purpose
but to sell toys and in spite of the
success of Pixar's other films Toy Story
notwithstanding cars was the first to
get a sequel which is interesting
because it also has one of the least
impressive box office performances of
any pre-pandemic Pixar film and indeed
whatever Soul the first movie had the
second one had less effectively
accomplishing nothing but giving Larry
the Cable Guy a feature-length stand-up
gig and confirming that 911 occurred in
the cars Universe which means that the
car's Cold War existed which means that
there was a car's nuclear arms race
which means that cars World War II
happened which demands the existence of
cars Hitler and subsequently the car's
assassination of Carr's Grand Duke Franz
Ferdinand which through the car's Holy
Roman Empire we can only extrapolate
that there was a Bubonic plague in the
cars universe as much as this may seem
tongue-in-cheek it's highlighting a very
key problem that developed in Pixar
whereas before they would take a concept
like monsters in the closet or ant hill
politics and build a world around that
the studio used absurdity and scale to
either integrate the plausibility of
their plots into our world or like The
Incredibles would dismiss plausibility
and cultural identification altogether
for this reason cars seemed half-baked
was it in this world or not where was it
drawing from our history and where was
it just kind of doing its own thing but
of course that mattered less than
selling cars merchandise which when you
look at how much money cars merchandise
has made next to every other stream of
Revenue at Pixar it's clear exactly why
cars got two sequels and a slew of
spin-offs and this would have been
dismissable as a project to appease the
Disney overlords who needed to push
merch off of those Disney store shelves
like any parent lacking responsibility
skills when Disney drops the ball one of
their kids has got to pick up the slack
it would have been dismissable if this
wouldn't be how Pixar would continue to
treat its projects between Cars 1 and 2
Pixar released a trio of prestigious
juggernauts Wally up and Toy Story 3
which earned Disney by proxy a long
coveted best picture nomination one for
Dad three for fans it seems like an
acceptable ratio Brave was the second
time that Pixar was really seen as
bending their Creative Vision to appease
Disney after Wally the last of the
original five Pixar Concepts to be
released Brave was closer in concept to
a Disney princess movie than Pixar's
established brand and indeed Merida is
included in Princess merchandise Disney
got what it wanted a stop Gap after
Tangled and the Princess and the Frog
underperformed so they could sort out
what to do with frozen which was then an
adaptation of The Snow Queen and in cold
development hell Pixar began to
incorporate more human Focus stories
into their features the long-awaited
sequel to Finding Nemo was closer to
Cars 2 than Toy Story where the CIA
sequel was built entirely around a
takeaway character from the original and
the original protagonists were more or
less abandoned and it's not that Pixar
is making bad movies or that their
messaging is lacking but it seems that
they're leaning on gimmick storytelling
to do a whole lot more of the heavy
lifting like Bing Bong from inside out
who from the second he was on screen was
read as an emotional Pawn who was only
there to make the audience cry but then
there are movies like Coco onward Luca
and turning red which again were not bad
movies but it's not really clear why
these were Pixar movies because they
seem like Disney movies especially with
the mouse leaning into plot beats and
styles like Big Hero 6 zootopia Ryan The
Last Dragon and Encanto it's hard to
really qualify why these latest Pixar
films seem so distant and to a large
extent it might be that Disney is just
trying to be more like Pixar but it does
feel like Pixar is taking notes from the
top developing stories where it is less
about a cast of personalities and more
about generating settings that younger
viewers could imagine themselves in they
focus more on showing this world to the
audience there's a spectacle made of the
creative process rather than passively
depicting characters interacting with
the world and trusting the audience to
pick up on the defamiliarization they
also focus more clearly around Coming of
Age whereas that wasn't really the
primary theme of a Pixar movie until
Brave which is absolutely Disney's
wheelhouse we're not likely ever going
to get another story about a lonely
robot where the first half of the movie
is entirely without dialogue and leads
an entirely New Generation to discover
why Hello Dolly put an end to the
original Hollywood musicals but the most
important distinction is the scope of
what these films are discussing
contemporary Pixar films discuss
self-actualization emotional growth
personal development and interactions
between the self and Society again
Disney's bread and butter nothing new as
far as animation goes however the reason
early Pixar films stood out so firmly is
that they handled more macro themes A
Bug's Life spoke to the power of
collectivism against a smaller class of
oppressors Monsters Inc was about the
moral bankruptcy of Corporations Wally
was about the invested interest of
keeping an entire population docile
independent The Incredibles and
Ratatouille in spite of being made by
Brad Bird have different things to say
about classism which is unfortunate
because a lot of people grew up taking
notes about individual exceptionalism
from this raging Iran fan personal plot
beats are present in all of these films
but characters are secondary to what the
film has to say about Society at large
even in earlier Pixar films that do
focus on characters topics and themes
remain more abstract Toy Story routinely
discusses abandonment issues and related
trauma dictating who is or who is not
useful to social structures up focuses
on demystifying the idea of Youth being
the time to have Adventures and Finding
Nemo was more directed at parental
anxiety even cars was about learning how
to slow down and appreciate the little
things in life that empathy and
integrity can and should go a lot
further than chasing the next big deal
or the next big paycheck pay attention
we're going to come back to that later
these days Pixar films seem to align a
lot more with what Disney is comfortable
with Coming of Age Family Values
friendship spectacles set pieces to show
off just how much those computers can
render Etc honestly Encanto feels more
like a Pixar movie than anything that
Pixar's produce lately and no it's not
subtle what's going on leaks from staff
at Pixar are all indicating that the
studio is under more and more creative
pressure to fit into the Disney mold
especially because in spite of tanking
staff morale Pixar has now in large part
been moved to the exclusively for
streaming part of Disney plus and
believe me this does have a lot to do
with the process of creating Independent
Media Pixar as a studio should be seen
as maybe not a cautionary tale because
it still is where animator's dreams come
true and in spite of their creative
shift they are producing Stellar content
we're not talking at all about the
quality of what's being made we're
talking about the creative process
behind how it's created guys it's okay
to like Pixar movies please do not go to
the the comments and say that I'm
trashing Pixar I am not but this should
be seen as just what happens the more a
creative Venture gets Tangled into a
large corporate structure Pixar
Animation Studio has its roots in Indie
filmmaking the technology was developed
in large part by George Lucas even
though each one of the Star Wars Movies
featured the 20th Century Fox logo each
one with the exception of episode 4 was
financed and produced independently by
Lucas himself until Disney got them
following Star Wars Episode 6 he sunk
his hands ever deeper into the
technology that makes sound and visuals
he is one of the co-founders of THX
which everyone who lived in the 90s and
2000s will recognize as the logo that
told you to turn your volume down he
didn't really like working for Studios
but he did like working with other
filmmakers famously the Raptors in the
kitchen scene of Jurassic Park was
animated as a digital technology Flex by
industrial Light Magic George Lucas
special effects team meanwhile some
Cinema Empires can't be bothered to
properly composite Mark ruffalo's head
into a scene for one of the most
expensive cinematic projects of all time
through this process Lucas toyed around
with using computer technology to make
animated shorts he abandoned the project
to ramp up his work on the Star Wars
prequels in the 90s where instead he
would be the guiding force on pioneering
Digital Cinema he was also a consultant
for digital effects for the Lord of the
Rings movies so no he's not just the
Star Wars guy he sold the Pixar
technology to Steve Jobs who in turn
sold it to Disney while maintaining a
strong creative control over the studio
the 2011 death of Steve Jobs also lines
up with Pixar's creative pivot Pixar
sets a unique stage for this reason as
it has been both in a tour driven
Animation Studio while also a cog in the
machine of a much larger art as product
product as art media Corporation but
specifically why are we talking about
this
when the image in the thumbnail is from
a web series about cussy horny depraved
murderous demons in an environment where
sexual deviances of the norm none of
those words have ever been in a Pixar
movie and with the exception of murder
they're not in the Bible either having
described how Pixar's content manifested
as per its relationship with corporate
oversight
what does that have to do with a hard R
rated animated series on YouTube
called hell of a boss
[Music]
um
foreign
hell of a boss is a show created by
Vivian Medrano in 2020. the show is
technically a spin-off of an earlier
series she piloted called has been Hotel
it's closer to say it's a spiritual
successor while the shows exist in the
same universe they share few other
overlapping elements and are
thematically distinct a key difference
is the inclusion of Internet celebrity
Brandon Rogers as leading voice talent
and a major contributor to the series in
conjunction with medrano's Signature
Care to setting and emotional
development hell of a boss stands out
even among Network animated series the
premise of hell of a boss follows Blitz
the O is silent as he runs a business
which offers services to damned souls
for a nominal fee the immediate murder
professionals are just imp or imp will
zip on up to the world of the living to
get revenge on behalf of the now dead
person usually this involves killing
whoever the client blames for them being
in Hell imp is made up of Blitz Moxie
and Millie a happily married couple and
Blitz is adopt furry I mean
hellhound daughter Luna as much as Moxie
in particular Longs for appropriate
work-life boundaries Blitz insists on
having a family environment at work
ironically the one person who actually
wants to be around Blitz is someone who
he is constantly trying to give the slip
Prince stolis one of the principal
rulers of hell is head over heels for
blitzy stolis himself is a little bit of
a late bloomer to love and gay sex
having lived most of his life in a
Loveless marriage that he's only put up
with for the sake of his daughter
Octavia as a Croatia either a variation
of demon or a dynastic family stolis
possesses a grimoire which can open
portals to the Mortal realm a book that
blitzy needs in order to get paid so in
order to borrow it from stolis he needs
to give the prince of Hell The Jerk
around to keep him hooked just enough
while still being able to avoid
emotional intimacy but because the book
ultimately belongs to stolis Blitz does
kinda have to toe the line
stolis does on a few occasions
demonstrate why nobody should really get
on his bad side just your average pissed
off bottom stuff really the nature of
the plot forces Blitz into a situation
where he can either choose to abandon
what seems to be a last resort career or
to confront his attachment problems
we're getting into spoilers now go watch
the show it's on YouTube you have no
excuse as with all of medrano's content
on her channel vivzipop the series is
rot with gratuitous cussing gratuitous
violence and most of all gratuitous
genderblind sexuality which the first
two are nothing particularly new for
cartoons and even explicit sexuality
isn't anything too shocking for those of
us old enough to remember that drawn
together was once a thing but the degree
to which errant gender is depicted is
something that stands out from the norm
even in comedic animation where queer
people are included
we're usually just the butt of the joke
[Laughter]
this is Hell after all it makes perfect
sense why all the Purity rules we hold
would be inverted there there isn't even
an everybody is bisexual or pansexual
angle either it's relatively clear that
where some characters have no preference
a character like stolis simply doesn't
have much interest in women whatsoever
the fact that he's leaving his wife for
a man is not scandalous the Scandal is
that he's leaving her for a lesser demon
in hell where degeneracy is not only the
norm but the social expectation the only
Real Taboo seems to be
affectionate monogamy it's a whole new
fetish called normally Moxie and Millie
frequently have to face jeers and
criticisms about their
relationship though really they they
could they could stand to tone it down
just just a little bit the thing that is
shocking about hell of a boss however is
the very strange uncompromising quality
of the writing Under The Gallows humor
there is a strong underline a very
Salient emotional beats consistent
characters and recurring plot themes
which challenge these characters yes the
plots are outrageous and the setting is
outlandish but when the series wants to
be it can be shockingly real for
instance in the show about horny violent
demons I was caught off guard when an
entire episode ended up being dedicated
to exploring the way that children may
internalize their parents divorce why
does he hate a bull that he loves me
it's fairly common to see media where
children spiral through their parents
divorce at least in media where divorce
is depicted at all which is still
shockingly infrequent as per actual
divorce rates the depiction usually
focuses on how children go a little
sideways due to family cohesion breaking
up or some kind of abstract reasoning
like that however this is also media
which depicts parents as being much
better at keeping their emotional [ __ ]
away from their kids I've spoken with a
few people who were either ambivalent or
relieved when their parents announced
that they were moving ahead with
separation children are shockingly good
at picking up that their parents just
aren't vibing with each other and
parents are shockingly bad at assuming
their kids aren't going to pick up on
the needling each other over dinner hell
of a boss's Octavia has been living in
this home environment for some time and
although she does not seem that upset
about the divorce itself her concern is
that the divorce is going to drain the
life out of her parents so they won't
have anything left for her which is
quite the nuanced depiction especially
when it would have been easier to just
depict the easy route especially now
that we're into the second season of the
series the creators seem more
comfortable with depicting these kinds
of interactions gotta get the audience
hooked with the sex and violence first
though it's rare that an animated series
is allowed to go both ways there is
Saucy adult animation meant to push
boundaries like Rick and Morty or
well-developed animated dramas like
Slice of Life anime usually when
networks approve any kind of series they
want things to be able to fit neatly
into categories this way it's easier to
qualify what kind of media is successful
because if you're operating off of a
numbers only situation it's impossible
to isolate what elements of a piece of
media make it successful the media in
question cannot be reduced to the sum of
its parts because quality in media is
more about how these parts interact it's
why Marvel sticks to the Marvel formula
they found something that agrees with
audiences but which has quantifiable
elements that can be controlled through
several layers of executive oversight as
long as their media sticks to this
pattern they can Bank on certain
projects being a success especially if
they aren't simply going to increase the
amount of low risk media they produce
and continue to put all of their eggs
into only a couple of very expensive
baskets for instance Avatar the way of
water didn't break even until it hit 1.1
billion dollars at the box office even
though terrifier 2 only made 12.6
million that was 42 times its budget of
250 000. in order for Avatar to have
that same kind of profit margin it would
need to make 10.5 billion dollars which
means naturally Studio content is going
to get more formulaic because it needs
to fit proven models for success and
their media is going to begin to be
directed at the broadest possible
audience
but as a crowd-financed web series hell
of a boss is in a unique situation
Medrano does not strictly need to answer
to anyone to approve the content that
she wants to fill her media with
as a more or less independent Creator
she can make media
independently strictly speaking hell of
a boss is independent but the show from
which it spun off has been hotel is not
technically independent anymore has been
was picked up by a studio for more
episodes none other than a24 the studio
I'd sell my left lung right kidney and
both nuts to work with a24 is a
relatively small Studio founded in 2012
though they themselves are a bit off the
beaten path the studio gained recent
Renown for releasing everything
everywhere all at once a critical inbox
office success however the Studio's
other noteworthy venues include Swiss
army man ex machina hereditary the
lighthouse and Euphoria the Studio's
history is interesting but essentially
amounts to a rich person throwing small
fortunes at creative types to just mess
around and find out it just so happens
that the creative people they throw
money at are exceptionally talented
maybe an a24 executive just watched the
pilot and decided they were going to
throw money at something that they
wanted to see more of you know like
patreon Linked In the description God
forbid a studio head that actually
watches and enjoys stuff industry's
secret is that the people running these
media companies
don't actually watch the movies or
television shows that they produce
patreon and other crowdfunding services
have made careers for small creators who
would have never otherwise managed to
find a platform artists existed because
of patrons you know back in the day when
an old money type with titles and tracks
of land would see some poet or composer
and would pay them to live in their
Manner and make art the rich person then
gets to say hey I helped this cool
artist friend who I am definitely not
having any gay sex with by the way make
something really really cool not a
perfect system especially because you
can't really criticize the wealthy
classes directly but clever artists and
this is one thing that Shakespeare was
very good at would sneak in some real
social commentary he was also apparently
pretty good at the gay sex part too
allegedly so yeah I'm pretty comfortable
qualifying hell of a boss as Independent
Media
because
on top of everything else
vivzipop has a habit of collaborating
with other independent creators in
significant ways
and some of these creators are people
that most corporations in their right
mind wouldn't touch with a laser pointer
and a hazmat suit
[Music]
who is Brandon Rogers Brandon Rogers is
a YouTuber who's been around since the
site became a thing joining the platform
in 2006 he's best known for satirical
skits where he plays a multitude of
characters characters that are crass
offensive arrogant repulsive aggressive
unsavory kind
caring touching and wait what the hell
is this
you can't be offensive and touching
but apparently he is his channel
originally started out as simple comedy
sketches with recurring characters
however in recent years he's developed a
sort of Cinematic Universe for himself
with multi-episode series these include
stuff and Sam blame the hero and normal
British series as well as crossover
one-off episodes like a day at the park
and a day at the beach with my wrestling
Crush Sammy Guevara even co-starring in
Helen trains a wrestler because of
Brandon's dedication to the joke and
ever increasing production value he's
lasted a lot longer on YouTube than most
of the sketch comedians that popped up
on the platform in the early days a
pretty damn impressive feat considering
a multitude of his videos are rated 18
plus by YouTube and he makes absolutely
no effort to self-censor which you'd
think might be the end of him these days
but it seems to work in his favor
normally the phrase equal opportunity
offender can be a bit of a trigger look
at creators like Trey Parker and Matt
Stone of South Park and their
pseudo-libertarian approach to whom they
make the target of their ridicule yes
they target established Authority
depicting the nonchalant cruelty of
Republicans the blase ineptitude of
Democrats showcasing the narrow balance
of police brutality and the incompetence
of law enforcement
the series does on occasion rush to the
defense of public figures who are
perhaps unjustly the target of media
mockery such as Britney Spears and at
times they use their platform to stand
up for marginalized groups like The
episode with Stan's gay dog
and all of this sounds like an
upstanding responsible use of a given
platform if it wasn't for the Equal
Opportunity part because there is no
specific Target of their mockery they
target everyone there is a component of
their whiteness and straightness that
doesn't seem to understand how
institutions of Oppression function
and while you can deflect criticism for
targeting elements of a minority
community's Culture by saying we're
making fun of everyone it doesn't take
into account a culture which is already
passively ridiculing those same people
for instance they're falling out with
Isaac Hayes the voice actor of staple
character Chef is indicative of this
although things do get a bit complicated
Chef was unknowingly racist caricature
that was used to often address the white
perspective of black people in small
communities they were already threading
the needle
Isaac's sudden departure from the series
left him on very bad terms with Parker
and stone only using existing dialogue
lines they wrote Chef out of the series
with a gruesome death and in the same
episode which highlighted an unspoken
historic precedent of English
adventurers and explorers molesting the
indigenous children of colonized Nations
they implicated their only reoccurring
black adult character a cafeteria Chef
in an elementary school as being a
pedophile and this is in conjunction
with a recurring polarized take on trans
people and identities ranging from
pretty okay to downright transphobic and
also targeting and ridiculing specific
people like Al Gore and his climate
change advocacy which has had
detrimental and measurable real-world
effects remember kids it's never just a
cartoon so when it comes to a
description of Brandon Rogers and his
comedic style he can also fit as an
equal opportunity offender but why am I
willing to criticize Parker and Stone
where I will praise Rogers Rogers also
has a broad range of characters which he
uses to style his comedy he also uses
potty and Gallows humor for his
carnivalesque videos Suburban moms
single spinsters gay men lesbians
homophobes white people black people
Asian people Hispanic people children
the poor the English the blind cats
social media influencers ghosts Jeff
Goldblum closet cases and even robots
they're all lampooned skewered and torn
to shreds but then in odd moments of
tenderness many of them are brought down
from their ridiculous Heights and become
surprisingly identifiable Bryce tank
thrust a CEO turned president of the
United States turned disgraced
ex-president of the United States is
probably one of the best
characterizations of corporate evil I've
ever seen with her literally having no
heart and raising an army of clones just
to rip their hearts out so that she can
keep on being the biggest [ __ ] in
America but even she has had a backstory
developed that humanizes her because in
the world that Brandon Rogers creates no
one is above being made fun of and
almost no one is too low to sympathize
with Rogers himself is gay and of
Portuguese Filipino Scottish and Spanish
descent so he gets a pass for
pretty much everyone that he makes fun
of in his videos but even though he's a
gay man of color who successfully broken
into the insult comic World dominated by
straight white men and also broken the
rules and made it better in my humble
opinion not all gay people are all too
fond of his videos it's hard not to find
gays on Twitter Reddit or Tumblr to
crying him is bad for the community and
giving gays a bad name he's too crass
too juvenile not setting a good example
not being a good gay as it were I don't
know what you do with these but I know
you people will that's a vacuum yes but
what do they use it for in fact
doesn't he seem to just represent all
the things that we try to avoid putting
forth the absolute wrongest version of
our community to show to The Straits but
on the other hand doesn't it just get
exhausting to put on all of these errors
for the sake of impressing the straights
why do we have to be biting our tongue
like it's Thanksgiving dinner with
relatives who think it's important to
get a Republican president every now and
then just to balance out the Democrats
and who is the we
that is deciding what we should and
should not depict
to the CIS hetero hegemony
[Music]
queer people are put off by Brandon
Rogers usually the same group of people
who don't like being locked into the
lgbtq umbrella term there's a
sensibility in the community itself that
feels that Roger's crass explicit
YouTube videos are in detriment to the
community because golly gee what are the
straights gonna think of us if we aren't
showing them that we can be just as
straight as them or straighter if at all
possible
putting on an act that will earn us
acceptance into the hetero hegemony
should not be the sensibilities that we
use as a foundation
we had to create this community and
queer enclaves to protect ourselves from
this group of people in the first place
and now we are going to put ourselves
under such massive duress just to avoid
backlash from them if that weren't the
case we would ask a different question
one that does not require an answer why
shouldn't Brandon Rogers make his videos
make 2023 the first year where we
stopped saying that one Rogue queer with
no straight social filter is somehow
sabotaging everyone else's rights all
that does is point out how fickle the
hegemony's morality is and that we ought
to hold them to a higher standard not us
meanwhile have we really sat down and
asked ourselves if playing to straight
standards is a fantastic idea and when I
say straight I do mean cisgender and
heterosexual I do acknowledge that a lot
of trans people are heterosexual
but like a bisexual person telling
everyone they're gay just to save time I
have places that I'm trying to go with
this see the problem with an appeal to
The Straits is that they don't really
know how we want to be seen which
results in a lot of CIS people believing
that Blair white is a shining example of
trans visibility the problem here is
that it is easy to receive praise and
recognition among the hegemonistic
cultures by telling them that there is
no onus on them to change or adapt
playing to the crowd as it were whereas
to make any strides in visibility you
have to be willing to challenge
convention the message we need to send
to truly gain strides in the fight for
our rights is that people do not need to
live by this rockwellian set of nuclear
family values to be fine I certainly
hope that as Rogers becomes more
prolific and prominent that he does not
face more backlash for developing the
kind of content he wants to produce
on one hand
he yes does make content that seems
highly indicative of lowbrow YouTube
skit comedy which can often amount to
men in bad drags screaming for no reason
however Rogers is capable of
demonstrating a great deal of Technical
and narrative skill in the development
of these videos as far as there is a lot
of shrieking in these skits his dialogue
has a punch characters are well
developed and he makes good use of
visual cues and regardless of how
chaotic they seem they all drive toward
a straightforward theme for instance
he's one of the only creators I can
think of who's pulled off time travel
well but most importantly all of his
characters no matter how outrageous are
indicative of a kind of humanity at
their core they are identifiable on a
personal level in a way where you can
say
I know that person
even if the person you're thinking of
does not go quite so hard
where did you get vodka one more time in
Mama's mouth ultimately this is the
clear separation between the likes of
Parker and stone and Rogers both can be
offensive satire however South Park can
have a tendency to be personally
insulting rather than Rogers whose
insults are not quite so personal if I
were to qualify it I would say that the
difference would be Roger's comedy
targets Trends or behaviors themselves
and even if they are indicative of a
particular identity the identity is not
the target merely their behavior he
humanizes his characters while he's
making fun of them while targeting
expressions of an identity care is taken
not to invalidate the identity
it is the character that is comedic
whereas South Park functions well when
it's making fun of white straight people
because in the show there are still
redeemable White characters to be found
with a limited cast of diverse
characters and a set of narrative
framing devices that paint these
communities with broad Strokes the
identity itself becomes the target
there's no rationale or cultural context
for why these people act the way they do
simply holding up the behavior and
saying isn't this weird see how peculiar
this is look at this gay guy wearing a
harness
ah
those homosexuals it's not a secret that
people of privilege have difficulty
separating a criticism of behavior from
a criticism of identity keep in mind
Born This Way was a message that was not
projected to them until February of
2011. those are privilege are so
accustomed to joining in ridicule of
other people that the second someone
makes fun of a component of white people
there is a widespread right-wing
backlash about how some how whiteness
and Santa Claus are under attack I don't
like them putting chemicals in the water
that turn the freaking frogs gay is the
inability to navigate these nuances a
component of privilege or is it
something conditioned by living in
privilege meanwhile successful satire
tends to hold a reverence for the target
of ridicule Tina Fey's method of doing
this for instance is to make fun of the
person doing the ridiculing just as much
as the target of Comedy or to ridicule
the act of ridicule itself but at the
core all subjects of mockery need to be
put in the context of their own Humanity
I feel this is indicative of why exactly
hell of a boss holds so much impact as a
writer on most episodes Rogers seems to
be aware of how these characters can
reach such carnivalesque Heights while
at the same time keeping them
identifiable this sets the stage for
when he steps away from the writer's
chair for episodes that are intended to
be more personal and empathetic
medrano's brand without them being
tonally jarring suffice to say hell of a
boss's ability to play both camps
exceptionally well makes it stand out in
a way that is refreshing to see
especially in an era where there is more
and more social pressure to go through
corporate channels to generate media
because on the other side of an unspoken
shame directed at those who have the
Moxie gumption coordination Drive
determination grit skill talent and
persist to produce their own media
independent of a corporate structure and
agenda there's a very loudly spoken
praise
for those
of us especially for minority
communities
who managed to convince a CEO
to let us make our media
[Music]
when it comes to the success of Ipsy Pop
animation and especially the prominence
of Medrano and Rogers as YouTube
creators there's a discussion to be had
about why queer content doesn't seem to
translate onto the big screen as well as
being touch and go with cable TV whereas
our visibility seems to thrive on
streaming and on media sharing platforms
like YouTube it seems like the smaller
the screen
the more liable we are to thrive there's
an under discussed discourse for why
this may be the easiest suggestion and
this is Hollywood's favorite is that gay
stories just don't make money sure we
are a relatively small community
but so are so many other communities who
receive a wide range of representation
in film and what it comes down to is
that no we don't really turn out to
support movies that purport to represent
us but I think the answer for why is
more complicated than we've been led to
believe there were three prime examples
in 2022 two of which failed primarily
due to neglect Studios under promoting
these films to a point where reporting
on strange worlds opening weekend box
office bomb
was the first time a lot of people had
even heard of the movie meanwhile it
went to number one on Disney plus Fire
Island was sent to Hulu to die both of
these are Disney's Fault by the way
shocker and yes gay people are going to
get blamed for this for whatever reason
but I would instead like to confront
my own community
with why we quote unquote let Billy
eichner's Bros flop for its theatrical
release boiler alert I actually
literally could not bring myself to
finish watching Bros it was that bad I
had to read a synopsis of the last 20
minutes which did not help a breakdown
of bros really isn't necessary if you
know who Eichner is imagine that but in
a plot that tries to frame him as
endearing somehow
imagine a regular rom-com but gay and
lacking narrative cohesion and without
tonal consistency and an unnecessary
amount of f-bombs and no less than four
sex scenes involving him and Incredibly
attractive white guys this combined
earned the film and hard R rating which
it seems quite proud of in spite of the
fact that that limits the potential
theatrical audience Eichner is
desperately trying to be both Tina Fey
and Larry Kramer however he's too
arrogant to direct criticism at himself
yet too insecure to say anything
actually provocative but regardless of
the fact that R-rated films have been
shown to perform quite well at the box
office especially if made for a moderate
budget Bros underperformed to a point of
Eichner
explicitly citing homophobia as the sole
reason for why the film failed Okay so
why didn't your own people go see it
then Billy make no mistake the queer
demographic is relatively small for now
however we in conjunction with a broader
audience who are interested in queer
characters and stories were invested
enough to give hell of a boss the kind
of views on YouTube which would have
any television executive wetting their
pants given that both hell of a boss and
Bros have a similar comfort with curse
words and sexuality why is one so much
more successful than the other
regardless of the platform a hell of a
boss is just ubiquitously more
successful and it was made without the
stamp of approval from a major studio
and most importantly why do queer
audiences gravitate towards the YouTube
show so strongly whereas queer audiences
were likely to turn away from Bros a
common argument is that queer people
aren't comfortable going to see queer
movies in theaters the outdoor Journey
to the cinema May attract the prying
eyes of homophobes that it's safer and
emotionally easier to just watch things
on TV even as Bros receive glowing
reviews from critics why were queer
audiences so turned off by it my
explanation is that this was a movie at
its narrative core about gay love and
Eichner giving his character the
opportunity to sleep with several
ridiculously attractive men while the
film claims to to decry these values
which is made abundantly Apparent at the
beginning of the film Eichner builds a
normative concept of gay love which is
outstandingly similar to straight love
gay people may not appreciate this
message because gay love itself is not a
monolith at least not the monolith that
straight love can be thing is without
the rudder of social etiquette
milestones we develop our own ways and
our relationship structures can be quite
varied throwing gender dependent
coupling to the wind there's a lack of
clarity regarding what roles two people
may occupy in a romance trying to
develop the quintessential gay love
story is impossible because every gay
person approaches love in a way that is
defined by their distance from
heterosexual coupling and in this Bros
tries to present itself as this
quintessential story in developing this
new heterotangential gay hegemony I
could foresee these opinions about Bros
or any other media that seeks to make a
normative argument about this ours is in
straight love let me tell you what our
love is I can see many people simply
feeling that one white homosexual CIS
man living in New York City does not
have the right to Define that bro's
narrative through line instead is that
growing up
in one's approach to relationships means
monogamy as that is the success factor
of the story it moralizes monogamous
love normatively aggrandizing itself or
criticizing media that promotes
heterotypical love while making a
mockery out of anything that is even
slightly out of the CIS heteronorm Rose
ends up being a broad Strokes normative
description about the moralistic
direction in which gay men apparently
ought to direct their lives again
people who were pushed from the hegemony
who in turn had to create their own
identities do not like being told what
their identity should be like Billy
eichner's character in Bros Bobby the
movie spends far too much time insulting
the people who it then demands support
from and Eichner does expect to be
celebrated in spite of the fact that he
spends the entire movie being critical
of everybody people let alone gay people
generally don't like that eichner's
attitude during the movie's promotion
didn't seem to help he went around
making statements indicating that this
was the first gay movie that mattered he
didn't say it was the first gay movie
but he did claim that it was the first
gay romantic comedy to be produced by a
large studio which is also wrong but the
statement did seem to imply that prior
gay movies the ones that kept us going
through his Century of persecution
seemed to matter less than this one
eichner's very public
self-congratulatory statements well
off-putting to queer people did a lot to
intrinsically tie this movie to
queerness in a way that was not done
with say Strange World between the two
critics seemed to be much more
comfortable celebrating Bros and after
watching the quality of Bros
okay I have some filmmaker stuff I need
to get off my chest Rose was shot with a
kind of lens called an anamorphic lens
these lenses are very expensive and
difficult to work with they make the
shot wider by shrinking the image like
what happens when you squeeze a JPEG in
Photoshop and then the editor has to
properly de-squeeze the image in
post-production anamorphic lenses are
used to generate incredibly dramatic
impactful visuals that are often what
people would consider cinematic I have
no idea why Bros needed to be shot with
these lenses
and they messed it up while I was
watching it I noticed that the image
wasn't de-squeezed properly
it's nothing that literally like anyone
would notice except people who know what
to look for but seriously this is not a
movie that requires fancy camera lenses
used to shoot movies like Lawrence of
Arabia and the Lord of the Rings anyway
taking stock of the technical skills and
talent that went into Bros the only
reason I think that it was received as
positively as it was is because critics
were afraid of being accused of being
homophobic for giving it an honest
review and while I can't know for
certain Eichner certainly made a point
of accusing everyone in the world minus
the 15 people who actually saw the damn
thing of being homophobic I can foresee
a few critics maybe being afraid that if
they gave it the good old thumbs down
Eichner would have personally showed up
at their doorstep with a baseball bat
and four out of the Five Guys from queer
eye what does confuse me about Bros and
this is going to seem generalized is the
movie itself Bros as a project
confuses me from a creative side the
film is designed to Lampoon a very real
precedent of queer media kowtowing to a
heteronormative standard while at the
same time Being Framed through a
heteronormative love story format all
the while the film itself pushes for
queer Independence while the creative
team was very proud of themselves for
using one of the largest film studios in
the world to validate it if queer
creators are in need of creative
Liberation from hetero establishment
expectations and formats
why was it so damn important to get made
by one of the largest
heteroestablishments
in Hollywood
[Music]
for all bros seem to Pride itself on
being the gay movie
it certainly doesn't reach very far to
accommodate the people it claims to want
to service
and definitely expects that audiences do
the heavy lifting in this relationship
with the media and yet aside from living
in this fictitious self-insertion wish
fulfillment world of fiction where
everybody likes Billy I mean Bobby and
takes him seriously every stop is pulled
to validate straight opinions of queer
identities don't worry Straits you know
all those weird things about gay culture
like polyamory and being comfortably
single into your 40s and you know how
queer people are just constantly arguing
about privilege
yeah don't worry it is dumb and
dysfunctional I said so if Eichner
really was intent on making Bros for us
queer people then he wouldn't have
blamed straight people for why it
flopped
and in the end Bros fits the definition
of exactly what it claimed it was
different from
a gay movie made for the bemusement and
celebration of straight people but if
Eichner was sincere in wanting to create
media that speaks two and four the queer
community
then that dream was always going to be
hobbled by a big Hollywood producer for
whom this community is a demographic on
a chart and a small one compared to the
straight white men and women aged 18 to
56. more confusing still is the fact
that this group of Executives and
creative decision makers who think they
know something about what audiences want
in spite of Landing their job after
coming from the microwave division that
insists that flops like Bros are proof
positive that there's just no demand for
queer content meanwhile roll over to
vivzipop's YouTube channel and find
views that any television producer would
ritualistically sacrifice their first
and second born to translate into
ratings
no demand no demand
none
apparently and hell of a boss sashayed
right past the limits of bold language
and sexuality that Bros stopped at
all the while this show does incorporate
queer aesthetic sensibilities and does
feel comfortable digging into the issues
affected by queerness and do all the
things that Bros cannot or will not do
because its narrative structure is
predicated on the limits of what a
corporate body will let it do though her
platform is self-made and much smaller
Medrano has reached more audiences than
an overwhelming majority of creators who
make as would be considered by many the
right kind of queer content so why is
Corporate made media put on such a high
pedestal why do we have to organize our
community to watch Oscar bait [ __ ]
and generic rom-coms but with gay
characters under the promise that if we
show everyone that this can be a success
then maybe they will actually give us
something we want never mind that wild
cats like Medrano and Rogers have been
there the whole time building content
that already speaks to us on their own
Medrano is demonstrating that their is
social currency for Niche content to
thrive in spite of every media executive
except at a24 apparently saying it could
never sell is it for everyone
no should it be for everyone no
the problem with corporate media is that
it needs to be for everyone meanwhile
this is the space for Prestige
where everyone wants to be
where we're told this is where you need
to go to know that you've made it
this is the coveted spot
this is where you want to move your
career
this is the big leagues could it really
be just about getting a bigger paycheck
or is there some kind of subliminal
thought process that by being contracted
by a straight executive it means we're
overcoming persecution
or maybe individual creators feel more
validated by a single executive than by
the praise of a large fan base but what
about the single executive's opinion is
more important than a whole audience
feeling seen by your art why is there
still such a rat race to impress
Executives when people like Medrano and
other independent creators are proving
that you can make a living by producing
the kind of media that you want to make
in the first place
making good art isn't at odds with
making a living
why is external approval so important
there was one
one
cohesive message that came out of Disney
Pixar's Cars
that there is integrity and value in the
slow lane that by chasing the more
lucrative contract the prestigious brand
you end up missing so much and leaving
behind the people who may mean a lot to
you
an entire movie designed to sell
Lightning McQueen merchandise to have
colorful settings and flashing lights
and it has this one Salient thing to say
how did so many people miss it
it came out 15 years ago why don't more
people of my generation
celebrate people
who don't sell out
[Music]
having lived as a gay man for 30 some
odd years now
I've seen the community go through some
big changes
when I was a kid in the 90s I remember
seeing arguments and debates over don't
ask don't tell in the Defense of
Marriage Act in the United States
I remember Ellen DeGeneres
coming out and all the chaos that
surrounded that
I can still see my mom crying while
watching the news coverage about the
murder of Matthew Shepard
my family talking about the legal battle
here in Canada about whether or not a
boy could bring another boy to his prom
I watched Queer as Folk and Will and
Grace
opened the eyes of millions of viewers
each week
I seethed
as George W bush tried using the gay
community and our marriage rights as an
election issue in 2004
and then he won
I was shocked the night Barack Obama was
elected president of the United States
only for California of all states to
enshrine discrimination into their
constitution with the passage of prop 8.
I watched and wrapped as soldier after
Soldier came forward to talk about how
they had been booted out of the U.S
military because they were gay
even though they're commanding officers
knew full well that they were gay when
they sent them on multiple tours in Iraq
and Afghanistan
and then a dishonorable discharge meant
that even after
multiple tours
they lost all their benefits and I
eventually cheered when Prop 8 was
overturned by the Supreme Court same-sex
marriage was legalized and the don't ask
don't tell policy was repealed all of
this was between 1993 and 2015.
that's 22 years
the fight for gay rights had been going
on long before 1993 of course it's been
going on forever really but it feels
like in the 22 years between 93 and 2015
that gay rights really went mainstream
since 93 we've watched as politicians
like Joe Biden voted against our rights
by voting for the Defense of Marriage
Act and we watched as he as the
President of the United States fully
repealed the statute in 2022 when he
signed the respect for Marriage Act
it's not politics if it's character
development that was sarcasm by the way
pay attention to voting records not just
what people say we saw gay characters
only being allowed on TV after a certain
time of night and movies almost
universally being rated R if they had a
gay character to Disney releasing a 200
million dollar animated movie with a gay
lead character
even if they did neglect to Market it
we saw lgbtq literature go from existing
on the fringes with people rushing out
of tiny bookstores with non-descript
paper bags containing copies of books by
authors like Christopher isherwood
Radcliffe Hall and James Baldwin
to queer Y.A books becoming Global
bestsellers and inspiring hit TV shows
though we've certainly run into some
setbacks
the progress has seemed rapid and
unprecedented
at least that's what the straights say
they don't seem to realize that people
were fighting for gay rights before the
Clinton Administration but if you look
at the queer community of today
and the queer community of the pre-aids
era
it feels like there's something missing
not just the tens of thousands of
Brilliant Minds talented artists and
loving people who we've lost to that
disease but a sense of something else
the shamelessness
the be whoever you want to be attitude
that perpetuated within the community
before
fighting for our very lives and hospital
beds became the only fight we could
fight
it's telling I think
that once protease Inhibitors had
reached the market and an HIV diagnosis
was no longer a death sentence
the battles that rose out of the AIDS
epidemic
for gay people
where access to marriage and military
service when Once the queer Community
was focused on creating the best art and
living lives worth telling stories about
the 1990s brought on a new goal
how best to fit in
as the brilliant friend Leibowitz has
said many times the first people who
died of AIDS were the interesting ones
the artists
there's a reason that Art became
Ghostbusters and cats in the 1980s
because all of the really talented
artists were dying
the rule Breakers ones who weren't
afraid to shake things up
and the audience died with them
now we don't have any kind of discerning
audience when that audience died and
that audience died in five minutes
literally people didn't die faster in a
war
and it allowed of course like the second
third fourth tier to rise up to the
front because of course the first people
who died of AIDS were the people who
I don't know how to put this got laid a
lot okay now imagine who didn't get AIDS
that's who was then lauded as like the
great artists so many of the gays Left
Alive once the Clinton Administration
came into being were to be frank
the boring ones the gays who knew nobody
and who nobody knew
and they Rose to the top of the
community and therefore their priorities
Rose to the top of the community as well
and what did they want apparently
they wanted to join the Army and have
big gay weddings
General employment non-discrimination
wasn't all that important to them
making sexuality and gender identity a
protected class along with sex race and
religion wasn't that important to them
they wanted marriage and Military
because they were the good gays
not the naughty gays who were sleeping
around and dying of AIDS
not the poor gays who couldn't make
political contributions
they were the gays with families and
commitment ceremonies and office jobs
and houses
they were the good ones
the ones who would look fantastic and
Incredibly marketable when they were
interviewed by CNN they were the gays
whose straight people would look at and
say to themselves
maybe they're not so bad after all
I still don't want my kid to be gay but
maybe it's okay if Bob and Henry got
married the gay rights movement shifted
from accept us for who we are to will be
whatever you want us to be if you accept
us
and it's kind of remained that way over
the last 30 years
we've been trained to be offended by
queers who step too far out of the
mainstream plenty and I mean plenty of
gays online were on edge when Billy
Porter started showing up to Awards
throws and dresses lots and I mean Lots
of gays were unnerved and worried when
trans people started coming out of their
own closets
some going so far as to disavow the T
from the LGBT because they were worried
people who don't like trans people would
Lop in the gay men and women in with
them who needs Community when you've
already got your house in the suburbs
right
and so so so so many gays will rise up
in a social media tornado at the first
sight of a problematic queer showing up
somewhere in Media and I'm not even
talking about like serial killers like
Dahmer or Buffalo Bill I mean I just
mean the [ __ ] gays being anywhere near
a sex positive as Samantha was on Sex in
the City 20 years ago could lead to a
gay character in today's day and age
being canceled for not being a good role
model for the community the queer
Community is one that's made up of oddly
shaped characters all being forced to
fit into these perfectly square boxes
built by the men who wanted marriage and
Military over protected rights for
everyone so it's been absolutely
revelatory
for me born right around the time the
good gays started taking control to see
some bad gaze being naughty in media and
having a blast doing it Brandon Rogers
has been the antithesis of the good gays
in those old gay marriage commercials
for about 15 years now and his videos
are just getting better and more complex
as time goes on
giving us queer characters that
mainstream media would be far far too
squeamish to portray fizzy Pop's
expanding world of hell has given us
queer assassins queer princes of Hell
queer demonic drug addicts and the queer
daughter of Lucifer Lilith themselves
who just wants to help people meanwhile
Hollywood gives us annoying gaze
dying gaze and gaze they refuse to
Market
James is this another video where you
say we should support independent
creators in studios instead of
supporting the giant Hollywood
conglomerates
yes asking Hollywood to give us fun
Earnest and meaningful representation
only for them to puke out Bros and then
still beg these producers it's like
begging a [ __ ] ex-boyfriend to take
you back because you feel lonely
even if he does say yes you think it's
not gonna suck
it is meanwhile there's a horde of
people begging for your attention that
we as a whole Community have managed to
ignore altogether some YouTubers are
making Funnier videos than anything
Hollywood's been spitting out lately
some production companies are making
queer inclusive content so good
it's the front runner for every Best
Picture award this season even though it
came out last March so in 2023 I think
we need to make a promise to search out
and watch some more independent queer
media
and stop jumping for joy every time
Marvel happens to cast a queer actor I'd
say we're a long way off from Disney
producing anything nearly as Queer as
the 2013 Young Avengers run by Kieran
Gillen
holding your breath for this is only
going to turn you blue support queer
creators on patreon by independently
published books by queer authors stream
web series by queer video producers and
watch all the queer movies and series
that somehow make their way onto major
streaming services like Netflix and
Amazon support it all yes even if you
find it offensive
because if you think queer characters
should be beacons of great decision
making and career choices
if you think queer characters need to be
models to show off to the Straits
The Straits who hate us in 2023
are still gonna hate us if we come
across as perfect or flawed so let's
stop caring what they think of us and
live our lives the way we want to
without asking for their acceptance
or their permission it's time we start
hearing the message that corporations
and other media Gatekeepers refuse to
say
that you are enough
that you have intrinsic value without
Authority's validation
that there are people who want your
stories your art and your feelings
maybe they'll be a little rough around
the edges but maybe that's better
because of the real raw unadulterated
place it comes from the most Hollywood
producers or Executives could never
understand
but for which
there may be an audience who will feel
seen by these stories
and we'll see you in return
it's time for us to start considering
whose opinions about us actually matter
and to start seeing ourselves as we are
as Worthy
because you're worth so much more
than a column on a spreadsheet
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]